高平
BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Professor Ping GAO received PhD in Chemical Engineering, Cambridge University in 1990. Her PhD thesis was on “Swelling and Drawing Behavior of Ultrahigh Molecular Weight Polyethylene” supervised by Professor Malcolm R. Mackley, FREng. She went on to conduct postdoctoral research under Professor Mackley until 1993, when she joined HKUST as an assistant professor. Her research focuses are on engineering polymer microstructures for high performance materials; her research group has made a number of seminal and technological breakthroughs by translating basic science into great technology. Notably, their original research on shear-induced phase transitions in thermotropic liquid crystalline polymers (TLCPs) led to the elucidation of 90% bulk viscosity reductions in polymer melts containing ppm level TLCPs. Part of the work was adopted in the 2nd edition of an undergraduate textbook “Introduction to Synthetic Polymers” by Ian Campbell, 1999, Oxford University Press. Her research group invented the world’s strongest bullet-proof carbon nanotube reinforced UHMWPE nanofiber by engineering order parameters in UHMWPE that exhibited 80 times of the tensile strength of stainless steel 304 with the same mass. They proposed a three-stage reinforcement hypothesis, and elucidated the unique simultaneous stiffening and toughening mechanisms in nanocomposites. The work was in collaboration with world’s largest bullet-proof fiber manufacturer, DSM (the Netherlands), and the media release made by HKUST on 23 April 2006 was featured worldwide.

Her research group has since started designing 2D but ultrastrong UHMWPE membranes. By engineering molecular conformations in the nanostructures of the material, and fabricating a topologically triangulated Delaunay structure in the plane of the film, they discovered the world’s strongest, and toughest 2D membrane; the filed patent was featured at the USPTO’s website as a news feed on 4 July 2019. The significance of their discovery means that nanomaterials can be used independently as macroscopic load bearing structures, enabling ordinary people to witness and appreciate nanotechnology. The citation of the media release by HKUST on 21 December 2020 reads: researchers from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology have developed an ultrathin polymer nanofilm, which is not only 25 times stronger than stainless steel with the same mass, but is also extremely transparent, gas-permeable, water-proof with adjustable porous properties, making it suitable for use as wearable devices, medical protection, desalination, electronics, solar cells and many other cutting-edge technologies.

Research Interests
Polymer

Rheology of polymers

2D Porous polymer films

Polymer membranes for biomedical, energy, environment and sensors

high-performance polymer fibers, films and composites

Nanocomposites

邵敏华
BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Professor Minhua Shao is the Cheong Ying Chan Professor of Energy Engineering and Environment, Chair Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering and the Director of HKUST Energy Institute. Before joining the HKUST in 2014, Prof Shao worked at UTC Power on fuel cells and Ford Motor Company on lithium-ion batteries in the United States. He was a UTC Technical Fellow (the highest technical rank) during his tenure with UTC Power. Prof Shao’s research interests include electrocatalysis, advanced materials for energy conversion and storage devices, such as fuel cells, batteries, electrolyzers, etc. He is one of the founding members of the Young Academy of Science of Hong Kong.

Research Interests
Electrochemical energy conversion and storage devices (fuel cells, lithium (sodium)-ion batteries, electrolyzers etc.)

Electrocatalysis

Electrochemistry fundamentals

Advanced materials

Biosensors

Density functional theory

温维佳
BIOGRAPHY
Professor Weijia WEN is currently chair professor of The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Dean of Function Hub of HKUST(GZ).

He received his Ph.D. in condensed Matter physics from the Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences and worked as a postdoctoral fellow in the University of California, Los Angeles. He is a leading expert in the field of soft matter, smart materials, wave metamaterials, nanometer biomaterials, advanced functional structural materials, optoelectronic advanced materials, and microfluidic chip design and fabrication.

A highly respected researcher with excellent experience, Professor WEN has won a series of awards and had taken up various important academic leadership roles, such as: In 2000, he was awarded the National Outstanding Youth Fund (overseas); He served as the chief expert of the Public Welfare projects (Agriculture) in 2013. His research achievement on the electrorheological fluids won the second prize of the National Natural Science Award. 

Professor WEN has published more than 350 papers and most of them have been published in top scientific journals with total citation more than 13,000 times and h-index of 57. He has obtained 19 US and more than 40 Chinese patents, respectively. He has organized some important international conferences and given more than 50 times invited talk to date. He supervised more than 40 Ph.D. graduates. Served as a PI and Co-I, professor Wen has received more than 50 research grants. A number of his research outcomes successfully industrialized and commercialized to date.

Research Interests
Condensed matter physics

张统一
BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Prof. Tong-Yi Zhang is the founding dean of Materials Genome Institute, Shanghai University, and the founding director of the Materials Genome Engineering division in the Chinese Materials Research Society (CMRS). He joined the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou) in 2022. His current research interests are Materials Genome Engineering, Materials Informatics, and Mechanoinformatics.    
Research Interests
Materials Genome Engineering

Materials Informatics

Mechanoinformatics

陈鹏
BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Peng Chen, Assistant Professor of Advanced Materials Thrust, Function Hub, HKUST(GZ). He obtained his PhD degree from Shanghai institute of optics and fine mechanics, the Chinese academy of sciences. Before joining HKUST (GZ), he worked as a senior researcher at Hefei national laboratory for physical sciences at the microscale, Shanghai branch of university of science and technology of China(2015-2018), and research assistant professor in HKUST (2019-2022). Prof. Chen has extensive research experiences in diverse experimental fields of atomic, molecular, and optical physics, including quantum optics, ultracold atoms, Rydberg atoms, quantum metrology and surface optics. His research works have been published in top peer-reviewed journals including nature communications, physical review letters, Optica, etc.  Prof. Chen has several technical patents, including patents under review.
Research Interests
Experimental quantum information science

Quantum few-body system

Quantum optics

Artificial quantum materials

Ultracold physics

Nonlinear optics

Novel microscopy

楚夏昆

BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Dr. Chu received his B.S. degree in physics and Ph.D. degree in theoretical physics from Jilin University. From 2014 to 2015, he was a Research Assistant at Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry. From 2015 to 2018, he conducted postdoctoral research at IMDEA-Nanoscience Institute in Madrid, Spain. In the summer of 2018, he moved to US and worked as a Postdoctoral Researcher at Chemistry department, Stony Brook University. His current research focuses on theoretical and computational molecular biophysics. He develops computational models and uses molecular dynamics simulations to study biomolecular structures and dynamics, including multidomain protein folding, protein-protein/DNA recognition, and chromosome structural organization.

Research Interests
Theoretical and computational biophysics

Coarse-grained biomolecular model

Flexible biomolecular structure and function

干则成

BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Zecheng Gan is now an assistant professor of Advanced Materials of the Function Hub at HKUST(GZ), and an affiliate assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics, School of Science at HKUST(CWB). He obtained his PhD from Shanghai Jiao Tong University, under the supervision of Prof. Zhenli Xu (2010-2016), and worked as a postdoc assistant professor in mathematics at University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (2016-2019) and then postdoc associate at Courant institute, New York university until August 2021 before joining HKUST. 

Broadly, his research interest includes applied and computational mathematics, scientific computing, machine learning and data-driven methods, and their applications in interdisciplinary sciences. More specifically, his research focuses on the development of efficient, accurate and scalable numerical methods for the modeling and simulations of complex fluids at mesoscopic scales, with broad applications in soft condensed matter physics, materials science and biology.

Research Interests
Applied math

Computational electromagnetism and hydrodynamics

Computational materials science

Data-driven and machine learning methods

李昊翔
BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Dr. Haoxiang Li is currently an assistant professor of Advanced Materials Thrust at HKUST(GZ). He received his Ph.D. degree of physics from the University of Colorado Boulder. Before joining HKUST (GZ), he was a postdoctoral researcher at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Dr. Li’s research focused on the exploration of quantum many-body states that emerge from charge, spin, and lattice interactions in quantum materials. More specifically, he uses angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy and various X-ray scattering techniques to study intertwined quantum orders and topological many-body states in novel quantum materials. And he is developing an integrated quantum spectroscopy system for probing electron and phonon structure and dynamics. Dr. Li has published research works in high-profile journals such as Nature Communications, Science Advances, Physical Review X, and Physical Review Letter.

Research Interests
Quantum materials

Strongly correlated systems

Topological electron, magnon and phonon systems

Superconductivity

Charge density wave

Quantum spin liquid

刘金国

BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Dr. Jinguo Liu acquired his Ph.D. training in Prof. Qiang-Hua Wang's group at Nanjing University on condensed matter physics. After that, he has been a postdoc in Prof. Lei Wang's group at the Institute of Physics (CAS) for two years, a full-time consultant in QuEra computing for half a year, and a postdoc in Prof. Mikhail Lukin's group at Harvard University for two years. His research direction is diverse, while all his studies are about developing new and better algorithms for solving existing or new problems. He is a passionate open source scientific software developer and he has the superpower of speeding up code in his lab by two orders.

Research Interests
Quantum computing and reversible computing

Tensor networks

Automatic differentiation

Scientific computing softwares

Chee Keong TAN
Chee-Keong Tan is an Assistant Professor in the Advanced Materials Thrust of Function Hub at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou). He obtained his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the Lehigh University in 2016 and his B.Eng. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Sheffield in 2011. He joined Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Clarkson University as an assistant professor since August 2016. His research focuses on semiconductor materials and nanostructures for electronic and optoelectronic devices applications. Tan has extensive experience in semiconductor materials design especially in wide and ultrawide bandgap semiconductors, such as dilute-anion III-Nitride and III-Oxide based materials. Specifically, he has established foundational work in dilute-anion III-Nitride field, bringing up novel concepts that provide breakthrough from fundamental bottlenecks in conventional III-Nitrides. He has authored or co-authored over 30 refereed journal publications.

Research Interests
Semiconductor materials and devices

王军
BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Dr. Jun Wang is an assistant professor in the Advanced Materials Thrust at HKUST(GZ), and an affiliate assistant professor in the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering at HKUST. He obtained his PhD at Ecole Polytechnique, University of Montreal in Chemical Engineering in 2016 followed by postdoctoral trainings at Polytechnique and University of Toronto. Before joining HKUST, he was a research scientist and technical lead in rheology and thermal analysis in the world-leading polyolefin manufacturing company NOVA Chemicals in Canada. Prof. Wang’s current research efforts focus on high-performance polymers and nanocomposites. He is interested in creating multiscale structures through control of interfacial phenomena in heterophase polymer and composite systems to deliver multifunctionality. These materials with tailored structure and properties can find wide applications in electrostatic dissipation control, electromagnetic wave absorption, flexible electronics, oil/water separation, acoustic/thermal insulation, etc. He is also motivated to develop lightweight micro/nano-cellular foams and upcycling/advanced recycling of polymers to enhance material sustainability and circularity. He has had close collaborations with renowned industry partners including ExxonMobil, Arkema, NanoXplore, etc. His work at NOVA Chemicals led to a game-changing technology in metallocene polyolefin processing which is being commercialized. He received the prestigious International Polymer Processing Society’s Young Researcher Travel Award in 2020. He has over 20 peer-reviewed journal papers and filed 5 US patents.

Research Interests
Conductive polymers and nanocomposites

Polymer foams and porous materials

Polymer upcycling and advanced recycling

Emulsions and gels

吴佳莹
BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Prof. Jiaying Wu is an assistant in the Advanced Materials Thrust, Function Hub, HKUST(GZ) and affiliate assistant professor in the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, The HKUST. Her research addresses the device physics and photophysics of new materials for solar energy conversion, including organic and perovskite solar cells as well as materials for photon driven photo-detecting. Her current research focuses on developing fundamental understandings of charge carrier dynamics in photon energy conversion materials/devices by using ultrafast spectroscopy and transient optoelectronic characterizations. She is leading an advanced characterization and analysis team at HKUST(GZ) to address and underpin the fundamental challenges for the next generation materials and technologies. 
Prof. Jiaying Wu obtained her PhD and MRes degree from Imperial College London (ICL) under the supervision of Prof. James R. Durrant FRS and her bachelor’s degree from the University of Electronics Science and Technology of China (UESTC). Her research has been published in top journals including Science, Energy and Environmental Science, Nature Communications, Joule and Advanced Materials.

 

Prof Wu is recruiting PhD for 2023. Highly motivated students with strong backgrounds in physics, material science, chemistry or mathematics are welcome to send her an email with CV and brief research overview for further information. 

Research Interests
Photon Energy Conversion

Photophysics

Device Physics

Charge Carrier Dynamics

吴肖肖
BIOGRAPHYRESUME
Dr. Xiaoxiao Wu is an Assistant Professor of Advanced Materials Thrust at HKUST(GZ). He received Bachelor’s degree in Physics from Nanjing University in 2014, and PhD degree in Physics from Hong Kong University of Science and Technology in 2018. Before joining HKUST(GZ), he was a post-doctoral researcher in Prof. Xiang Zhang’s group in HKU from 2019 to 2022. His research features extraordinary manipulations of waves beyond conventional limits using metamaterials, which control wave-matter interaction on demand through designed ensembles of artificial structures (“meta-atoms”). With a problem-driven approach, his research experiences span on a variety areas of metamaterials, including wave-functional metamaterials, which aim at challenges impossible for plain natural materials, and topological metamaterials, which aim at exploring the profound topological physics in photonic and phononic systems for fundamental progress and also exotic applications. On wave-functional metamaterials, Dr. Wu designed and realized the first bilayer metasurface for near-unity circular polarization conversion (APL, 108, 183502(2016)). On topological metamaterials, Dr. Wu achieved the first direct observation of valley-polarized edge states (Nat. Comm, 8, 1304 (2017). Citations > 200), and proposed the first scheme for topological corner modes of arbitrary shape (PRL, 126, 226802 (2021)). Until now, he has authored more than 30 journal papers, 11 as the first author or co-first author, 5 as the co-corresponding author, and has published on top journals such as Nature Communications and Physical Review Letters. According to Google Scholar, Dr. Wu has been cited more than 900 times, and more than 600 times as the first author, co-first author, or co-corresponding author, and Dr. Wu’s h-index is 15. He also has 4 granted patents on metamaterials.

Research Interests
Metamaterials and wave-matter interactions

Functional Metamaterials for EM and acoustic waves

Topological photonic and phononic metamaterials

Terahertz and sub-terahertz photonics


Mitsuo TAKEDA
BIOGRAPHY
SUMMARY

・  7 years of experience in education and research at Department of Applied Physics, Faculty of Engineering of Nagoya University.

・  35 years of experience in education and research at Department of Physics, Faculty of Science of Shinshu University.

・  8 years of experience in University management at Shinshu University.

 

WORK EXPERIENCE

NAGANO PREFECTURE NANSHIN INSTITUTE of TECHNOLOGY, Nagano, Japan        April 2022-present

・   President                                                                                                           (April 2022-present)

 

SHINSHU UNIVERSITY, Nagano, Japan                                                                      April 1985-present

・  Professor Emeritus of Shinshu University                                     　　        　(October 2021-present)

・  Specially Appointed Professor of Faculty of Science　　　　　　　　　           　(April 2018-present)

・  Trustee and Vice President of Shinshu University                            (October 2013-September 2021)

・  Dean of Faculty of Science                                                                              (April 2008-May 2014)

・  Professor, Department of Physics, Faculty of Science                                  (May 1997- March 2018)

・  Associate Professor, Department of Physics, Faculty of Science                 (April 1995- March 1997)

・  Associate Professor, Department of Liberal Arts, Faculty of Science           (April 1985-March 1995)

 

NAGOYA UNIVERSITY, Aichi, Japan                                                                      July 1978- March 1985

・  Assistant Professor, Department of Applied Physics, Faculty of Engineering (July 1978-March 1985)

 

JAPAN SOCIETY for the PROMOTION of SCIENCE, Tokyo, Japan                           April 1978- June 1978

・  Post doctor Researcher, Japan Society for the Promotion of Science             (April 1978-June 1978)

 

EDUCATIONS

    Doctor of Engineering, NAGOYA UNIVERSITY, Aichi, Japan                    Doctor of Engineering (1978)  

    Master of Science, NIIGATA UNIVERSITY, Niigata, Japan                              Master of Science (1975)    

    Bachelor of Science, SHINSHU UNIVERSITY, Nagano, Japan　　                Bachelor of Science (1973)                      

Publication Papers

    Total number of scientific papers: 91

    Number of papers published in the recent 5 years: 4
 
Research Interests
Photonic Crystals

Metamaterials

Ferroelectrics

Optical Physics

翁禄涛
BIOGRAPHY
Prof. Lu Tao WENG received his Ph.D. degree from the Catholic University of Louvain in Belgium. He is currently the Director of the Materials Characterization and Preparation Facility and an Adjunct Professor of the Advanced Materials thrust at HKUST(GZ). He is also an Adjunct Professor of the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering at HKUST. As an internationally acknowledged surface scientist, he has often been invited to deliver keynote lectures at international and domestic conferences. He is currently a member of the International Conference Organizing Committee on Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry (SIMS) and the only representative in Greater China. To expand the international influence of China's research in SIMS, he organized a special issue "SIMS Research in China" in an international journal "Surface and Interface Analysis in 2020. He has published three book chapters, six review papers and more than 130 peer-reviewed articles.
Research Interests
Surface chemistry and surface analysis of advanced materials

Surface analysis techniques (TOF-SIMS, XPS, and AES etc.)

Materials analysis





